---
layout: post
title: Tilt
tags: [Growth]
---

Seems a shame to keep this application in the dark:

https://sites.google.com/view/nntilt/tilt-report

Tilt came to Australia in stealth about April last year. They've got a playbook where they expand via colleges and campuses and then slowly migrate outwards. Very much like the Facebook of old when the product was strictly for college kids. 

They're currently in negotiation with Airbnb for acquisition which if done right can make the mobile experience a lot more seamless.

The above application was focused a lot on growth and to quote Alex Schulz 'The second thing to think about, that everyone in the Valley gets wrong is, we optimize when we think about growth for ourselves'. Take yourself out of the equation for a second and think about the guys on the fringes.

These are the guys that have tried your product and they don't quite get it. They've created accounts, they've played with the products and interacted at some level and still haven't managed to see the core product value of your application.

These are the guys that fall into the category of 'new' or 'churned' and are floating in the aether. Your app lies somewhere in their phone, untouched and unloved and the question then becomes 'why?'. Why are they here in the first place? Why can I not deliver it to them as quickly as possible?

For Tilt they started off with a simple premise "The easiest way to collect money off a group of people". And they did that incredibly well. What they found later however was that people in the UK were bending the app in order to do one-to-one payments.

Huh?

It makes sense when you take a look at the banking apps overseas. In Australia we're blessed with simple and user friendly banking applications. Cross the pond to our cousins across the water and it's a whole different story. 3 out of the 4 big banks have EXACTLY the same app except reskinned with their logos. The UI is horrible and paying someone $10 for lunch is the equivalent of going to the dentist. I exaggerate but you see my point.

So Tilt stepped up and enabled one-to-one payments to expand the use cases for Tilt. When the core functionality of the app is based around group payments the issue of frequency rears its head. How often will you need to collect money? How many situations per week? Per month? When you add a use case that happens far more frequently suddenly your Monthly Active Usage goes up and your product is that much stickier.

**Record Scratch**

**Freeze Frame**

Ok back to Australia. Well we don't have the same problems that the UK have. We've got great banking apps. So how do you increase usage across the population?

"Crossing the Chasm" by Geoffrey Moore is illuminating. Attack like its 1945 and go D-Day at Omaha beach. Target one very specific niche of the market and gain ownership and then leverage it to other markets. Most importantly - the niche should have a compelling reason to buy. They should have a significant pain point that your product can address.

The niche I identified was ticket sales in Australia especially the secondary market where tickets were resold. Being a member to a few live event Facebook groups I was privy to the most obvious dilemma:

"I can't go and now I have to resell my ticket".

What generally happens then is that a seller will post a ticket and a price. A buyer will message them via FB and then they'll meet in person and exchange.

Tilt has an eticketing feature that addresses all these problems. It allows or safe tranfer of tickets and money without having to meet face to face and I wouldn't be surprised if an anti-scalper feature could be built in so that ticket prices cannot be raised above the RRP.

Full analysis and assorted deliverables in the application above.
